#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy,Phase-Requirements
= Introduction =

This is the qemoon wikipage. This page is in early development.

It will contain:
  * documentation (installation, usage)
  * features
  * TODO
  * Known problems.
  * Some links

= Documentation =

== Desription ==
[http://qemoon.org qemoon] is a gui for the [http://qemu.org qemu] emulator. It allows to use qemu without knowing all command-line options.
qemoon is in a development state. It is not suitable in production use or for advance qemu users.
 
== Installation ==
  * Get and install a recent [http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp84244" JRE version] (1.5 or greater).
  * Download the right [http://ebellard.free.fr/qemoon/download.html qemoon distribution] for your os:
    * [http://ebellard.free.fr/qemoon/qemoon-windows-0.0.3.zip qemoon 0.0.3 windows] 
    * [http://ebellard.free.fr/qemoon/qemoon-linux-gtk-0.0.3.zip qemoon 0.0.3 linux]
  * Unzip the qemoon distribution
  * Launch the qemoon executable : _qemoon.exe_ for windows, _qemoon_ for linux.
  * Rock&Roll!!!

== Usage ==

=== Create a new vm from scratch ===
  # Create a new project : *File > New > VM Configuration Project* then *Next* 
  # Choose a unique name then *Next*
  # Choose the memory size (a 4 multiple) and the hard drive size then *OK*
  # double-click on the project to open the vm configuration  
  # Now you can:
    * control the vm: run, stop, pause
    * edit the vm configuration
    * clone the vm
  # Simply click on the play button to run the virtual machine
  
=== Create a new vm from an existing image ===
It consists in creating a project which uses an existing hard drive with a linux os.
  # Create a new example project : *File > New > VM Example Configuration Project* then *Next* 
  # Choose a unique name then *OK*.
  # Now you can:
    * control the vm: run, stop, pause
    * edit the vm configuration
    * clone the vm

=== Delete a project ===
  * Select a project in the navigation view
  * Click left then select delete in the contextual menu then *YES*.

=== Delete a project ===
  * Select a project in the navigation view
  * Click left then select rename in the contextual menu
  * Choose a new non-existing name then *OK*.

=== Preferences ===
Access to the preferences with Windows > Preferences
The preferences allow to:
  * Choose a custom qemu and qemu-img installation
  * Choose the qemu communication port 
  * Choose whether qemu or qemoon open the server socket for communication (keep default unless you have a good reason) 

= Features =

  * Create/execute/control/manage qemu configuration
  * Multiplateform: windows, linux, macosx (soon)
  * Easy to install : unzip & go!
  * Easy to use (I hope :-)
  
= TODO =

  * Better documentation : user guide, technical guide
  * Include a console to display qemu output
  * Monitor qemu with all possible command (already in the low-level code, must be include in the gui)
  * OSX port (I need a mac :-)
  * Autodetect cdrom
  * Better hard drive management
  * Add toolbar
  * nsis installer for windows
  * improve everything!

= Known problems =
  * Can't lunch qemoon under linux:
    * Check the *qemoon* execution right is set
    * Check *qemu* execution right is set
    * Check *qemu-img* execution right is set 
  * Some label are not centered with the text

= Some links =
  * [http://qemoon.org qemoon main site]
  * the [http://qemu.org qemu] official website
  * [http://www.bellard.org Fabrice's site]
  * [http://www.jroller.com/page/ebellard Eric blog] : beware it's in french ;-)
  * [http://wiki.eclipse.org/index.php/Rich_Client_Platform Eclipse RCP homepage]
  * Other qemu gui :
    * [http://www.exprofesso.com/jqemu/ JQEMU] : a java gui for qemu
    * [http://www.kju-app.org/ q] : a  (nice) gui for macosx  